docs/personal-assistant-guide.md, before:

# Claude Code as a Personal Assistant

I'm [Fabrizio](https://fabrizio.so), the co-founder of [Typefully](https://typefully.com). We use Claude Code extensively for development, but I also love automating my personal life.

While [Claude Code](https://claude.com/product/claude-code) is described as a coding agent, it's actually a powerful **general-purpose agent** when given the right instructions, context, and tools. So I started **using it as a personal assistant through Telegram**.

Here's my recommended setup:

1. **Create a dedicated folder** with a CLAUDE.md that teaches Claude about you, your preferences, where your notes live, your workflows.
2. _OPTIONAL_: ask Claude to **[symlink](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbolic_link) configuration files** into this new central folder, so you can also start to easily edit those files. For example, I symlinked ~/.claude/commands here, so I can ask Claude to add new commands which will be available everywhere. I also symlinked ~/.zshrc into this folder, so I can ask Claude to edit and improve my shell configuration too.
3. _OPTIONAL_: **track the folder as a Git repository** so you can easily version control it, or share it on multiple Macs.
4. **Set that folder as the working directory** for this bot (via `CLAUDE_WORKING_DIR`), and you're ready to go.
5. **Keep CLAUDE.md lean** by referencing your personal notes rather than embedding everything directly.

To extend its capabilities, install [MCPs](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/mcp), add [commands](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/slash-commands), and [skills](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills).

**The fun part: when you need a new capability, just ask Claude to build it.**

For example, I wanted my assistant to summarize videos, so I asked it to create scripts for fetching YouTube subtitles (with fallback to downloading and transcribing locally). Now I can request video summaries from anywhere via Telegram.

![Video summary example](../assets/demo-video-summary.gif)

## Example CLAUDE.md

CLAUDE.md in your personal assistant folder is the centerpiece of the setup.

Here's a template based on my own setup:

```
# CLAUDE.md

This file provides guidance to Claude Code so it can act as [Your Name]'s personal assistant.

## Quick Reference

**Key paths:**
- Notes: `~/Documents/Notes/`
- Personal docs: `~/Documents/Personal/`
- Downloads: `~/Downloads/`
- iCloud: `~/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/`

**This folder:**
- `scripts/` - Utility scripts Claude can run
- `claude/commands/` - Custom slash commands
- `claude/skills/` - Auto-triggered skills

## About [Your Name]

[Your Name] is a [age]yo [profession] based in [City]. [Brief context about work, lifestyle, timezone.]

**Current focus:**
- [Main project/job and key goals]
- [Side projects or interests]

**Passions & hobbies:**
- [Hobby 1]
- [Hobby 2]

## How to Assist

- **Always check the date**: For time-sensitive questions, run `date` first
- **Communication style**: [e.g., "Balanced and friendly, not too terse, use emojis sparingly"]
- **Autonomy**: Handle routine tasks independently, ask before significant actions
- **Proactive**: Suggest next steps after completing work
- **Formatting**: Prefer bullet lists over markdown tables

## Task Management

Use the [Things/Todoist/etc.] MCP to read and write tasks.

**When I ask "what's on my plate"**: Check both tasks AND calendar automatically.

**Creating tasks:**
- Check existing projects first to route tasks correctly
- Unless specified, schedule new tasks for Today
- Include relevant context in task description

**Key projects:**
- Work → [Project name]
- Personal → [Project name]
- [Hobby] → [Project name]

## Calendar

Use `scripts/calendar.sh` to check my calendar.

## Notes

`~/Documents/Notes/` contains:

- `pulse.md` - Daily life digest
- `Research/` - Research files and comparisons
- `Health/` - Health tracking, workouts
- `[Hobby]/` - Notes for specific interests

## Research

When I ask to research something:

1. Check existing research in `~/Documents/Notes/Research/`
2. Search thoroughly using web search
3. Save findings to `~/Documents/Notes/Research/YYYY-MM-DD-topic.md`
4. Include sources and a clear recommendation

## Personal Documents

Important documents in `~/Documents/Personal/` - identity docs, medical records, receipts, etc.

## Health (Optional)

Use `scripts/health.sh` for Apple Health data (requires Health Auto Export app).

When I ask for a workout:

1. Check my training plan in `Health/training.md`
2. Look at recent workout logs
3. Suggest appropriate workout and create the log file

## Telegram Bot

Claude Code can run in this folder via a Telegram bot (code located at `~/dev/claude-telegram-bot/`).

**Voice transcription keywords**: To add terms for recognition, edit `TRANSCRIPTION_CONTEXT` in `.env`.

**MCP servers**: Edit `~/dev/claude-telegram-bot/mcp-config.ts` to add new servers.

**Restart:** Use `/restart` in Telegram, or `cbot-restart` alias.
```

## Example: Claude as a Personal Trainer

One of the most magical uses of this setup is having Claude act as a personal trainer that knows your body, your training plan, and your recent activity.

### The Setup

1. **[Health Auto Export](https://www.healthyapps.dev/)** - An iOS app that syncs Apple Health data to iCloud as daily JSON files
2. **A script** that reads those files and returns structured health data
3. **CLAUDE.md instructions** that tell Claude where your training plan lives and how to create workout logs
4. **A Notes folder** (synced via iCloud) where workout logs are saved as markdown

### The Script

I asked Claude to create `health.sh` - a script that parses Health Auto Export's JSON files and returns my current health metrics plus historical trends for comparison.

Here's what it returns:

```json
{
  "current": {
    "sleep": {
      "duration": "8h 6m",
      "deep": "2h 4m",
      "rem": "2h 4m",
      "bedtime": "1:18 AM",
      "wakeTime": "9:27 AM"
    },
    "activity": {
      "steps": 6599,
      "distance": "5.1km",
      "activeCalories": 582,
      "exerciseTime": 20
    },
    "vitals": {
      "restingHR": 48,
      "hrv": 70.6,
      "avgHR": 61
    }
  },
  "trends": {
    "last7days": { "avgSleep": "7h 40m", "avgRestingHR": 56.6, "avgHRV": 68.8 },
    "30daysAgo": { "avgSleep": "7h 21m", "avgRestingHR": 55.1, "avgHRV": 66.4 },
    "3monthsAgo": { "avgSleep": "7h 29m", "avgRestingHR": 51.3, "avgHRV": 77.5 }
  },
  "recovery": {
    "score": 80,
    "status": "optimal"
  }
}
```

Now I can ask things like "how did I sleep?" or "how's my recovery looking?" from anywhere.

### The CLAUDE.md Instructions

```markdown
## Workouts

Use `scripts/health.sh` for Apple Health data.
Use `scripts/workouts.sh` for workout history.

**Workout requests** - when I ask for a workout:

1. Read training plan (`Health/training.md`) - from my PT, always the basis
2. Check recent logs in `Health/Workouts/` to see what I did last
3. Propose a workout that makes sense (if last was upper body → suggest lower or full body)
4. **ALWAYS create the log file immediately** as `Health/Workouts/YYYY-MM-DD-workout.md`
```

### The Workflow

When I message "give me a workout", Claude:

1. Checks my training plan from my PT
2. Looks at what I did in recent workouts
3. Considers my recovery score from `health.sh`
4. Creates a workout log file like this:

```markdown
# Workout - 29 Dec 2025

**Type:** Full Body
**Location:** Gym

## Exercises

3 sets, 10-12 reps, 1 min rest

1. **Leg Extension** - [video](https://youtu.be/...)
2. **Leg Curl** - [video](https://youtu.be/...)
3. **Lat Machine** - [video](https://youtu.be/...)
4. **Shoulder Press** - [video](https://youtu.be/...)
5. **Triceps Pushdown + Bicep Curl**

## Notes

Light workout during vacation, ~45-50 min.
```

Since my Notes folder syncs via iCloud, I open [Ulysses](https://ulysses.app/) on my iPhone at the gym and the workout is right there.

**But here's the really magical part:** I can message Claude mid-workout asking to tweak something - "swap the shoulder press for lateral raises" - and the file updates. I see the change live in Ulysses within seconds.

It's like having a personal trainer in my pocket who knows my training history, my recovery status, and can adjust on the fly.

## Example: Life Pulse Command

[Commands](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/slash-commands) let you define reusable prompts with dynamic context. They are usually placed in `~/.claude/commands/` (global) or `your-project/claude/commands/`.

The personal assistant folder is a great place to put commands, because you can ask Claude to add new commands which will be available everywhere, and can use the MCPs installed in this folder.

And since I've asked Claude itself to install MCPs and create scripts to access my stuff, I just reference these in commands.

Here's how my `life-pulse.md` command looks like (simplified, in reality it's a bit more complex):

```markdown
---
description: Generate executive life digest from tasks, calendar, notes, and health
allowed-tools: Bash(date:*), Bash(~/scripts/*), Read, Write, mcp__things__*, mcp__calendar__*
---

# Generate Life Pulse

Create a snapshot of my current life by pulling data from various sources.

## Context

- Current time: !`date "+%A, %Y-%m-%d %H:%M"`
- Pulse exists: !`[ -f ~/Documents/Notes/pulse.md ] && echo "Yes" || echo "No"`

## Description

This command creates an executive digest by sourcing:

1. **Tasks**: Today's items, upcoming deadlines, active projects
2. **Calendar**: Events for the next 1-2 weeks
3. **Notes**: Recent notes to identify themes and top-of-mind items
4. **Health**: Sleep, activity, and vitals (if available)

## Implementation

1. **Check Existing Context**:

   - Read `~/Documents/Notes/pulse.md` if it exists (for continuity)
   - Note what was previously urgent to identify changes

2. **Gather Data** (run in parallel where possible):

   - Tasks: Use Things MCP to get today, upcoming, projects
   - Calendar: Run `~/scripts/calendar.sh` or use calendar MCP
   - Notes: Read recent files from `~/Documents/Notes/`
   - Health: Run `~/scripts/health.sh` if available

3. **Synthesize into Executive Digest** with these sections:

   - **TL;DR**: 3-5 bullets capturing essential state of life right now
   - **Now**: Imminent tasks and events needing attention
   - **Next**: What to focus on based on priorities
   - **Future**: Longer-term projects and goals

4. **Write to File**:
   - Save to `~/Documents/Notes/pulse.md`
   - Include timestamp at top

## Output Format

Brief confirmation with the most notable items highlighted.

## Formatting Rules

- NO TABLES - use natural prose and bullet points
- Use **bold** for emphasis on key terms
- Keep it scannable but warm, like a personal briefing
- Limit each section to 5-7 items max
```

## Example: Dynamic Calendars

Another powerful pattern is having Claude **manage calendars that sync to your phone**. I use this for both real-world track days and sim racing leagues.

```
YAML config → sync.py → .ics file → GitHub Gist → Google/Apple Calendar
```

[GitHub Gist](https://gist.github.com/) URLs are stable, so calendar apps that subscribe to them auto-refresh when the content changes (with some delay).

### Track Days: Auto-Scraped Calendar

I wanted to know about track days at circuits near me (Estoril, Portimão in Portugal). The problem: event info is scattered across multiple organizer websites, often in PDF flyers or image-based pages.

So I asked Claude to build a scraper. It grew into a 36,000-line Python script (`racing-events.py`) that:

1. **Scrapes multiple sources** - EuropaTrackdays, Driven.pt, Motor Sponsor, CRM Caterham
2. **Uses Playwright** for JavaScript-heavy sites
3. **Uses OCR and Claude Vision** for PDF flyers and image-based calendars
4. **Outputs YAML** with structured event data

YAML is a good format for this since it's easy to read and write, and I can also easily spot mistakes and manually edit it.

```yaml
# calendars/track-days.yaml (auto-generated)
gist:
  id: 12344asdasd257be07871234asddfg123
  filename: track_days.ics
calendar:
  name: "Fab • Track Days"
  timezone: Europe/Lisbon
events:
  - date: "2026-01-11"
    time: "09:00"
    title: "Portimão - Gedlich Racing"
    duration_minutes: 540
    description: "Endless Summer | €3,290 | Open Pit Lane..."
    url: https://en.europatrackdays.com/trackday/29919/...
```

The YAML is then synced to a Gist that my calendar subscribes to.

When I ask "update my track day calendar", Claude runs the scraper, updates the YAML, and syncs to the gist. My calendar refreshes automatically.

### The Sync Script

I asked Claude to create a `sync.py` script that converts YAML to iCalendar format and pushes to GitHub:

```bash
# List available calendars
calendars/sync.py list

# Preview upcoming events
calendars/sync.py preview sim-racing

# Sync to gist (uses `gh` CLI)
calendars/sync.py sync sim-racing
```

I subscribed to these Gist URLs once in Google Calendar and Apple Calendar:

```
https://gist.githubusercontent.com/linuz90/.../raw/sim_racing.ics
https://gist.githubusercontent.com/linuz90/.../raw/track_days.ics
```

Now when I message "add the Belgium race to my sim racing calendar for next Thursday", Claude:

1. Edits `sim-racing.yaml`
2. Runs `sync.py sync sim-racing`
3. The gist updates
4. My phone calendar refreshes within minutes

I can manage my racing calendars from anywhere in the world, via Telegram.

Commit message:

docs: add workout demo gif to personal assistant guide

docs/personal-assistant-guide.md, after:

# Claude Code as a Personal Assistant

I'm [Fabrizio](https://fabrizio.so), the co-founder of [Typefully](https://typefully.com). We use Claude Code extensively for development, but I also love automating my personal life.

While [Claude Code](https://claude.com/product/claude-code) is described as a coding agent, it's actually a powerful **general-purpose agent** when given the right instructions, context, and tools. So I started **using it as a personal assistant through Telegram**.

Here's my recommended setup:

1. **Create a dedicated folder** with a CLAUDE.md that teaches Claude about you, your preferences, where your notes live, your workflows.
2. _OPTIONAL_: ask Claude to **[symlink](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbolic_link) configuration files** into this new central folder, so you can also start to easily edit those files. For example, I symlinked ~/.claude/commands here, so I can ask Claude to add new commands which will be available everywhere. I also symlinked ~/.zshrc into this folder, so I can ask Claude to edit and improve my shell configuration too.
3. _OPTIONAL_: **track the folder as a Git repository** so you can easily version control it, or share it on multiple Macs.
4. **Set that folder as the working directory** for this bot (via `CLAUDE_WORKING_DIR`), and you're ready to go.
5. **Keep CLAUDE.md lean** by referencing your personal notes rather than embedding everything directly.

To extend its capabilities, install [MCPs](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/mcp), add [commands](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/slash-commands), and [skills](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills).

**The fun part: when you need a new capability, just ask Claude to build it.**

For example, I wanted my assistant to summarize videos, so I asked it to create scripts for fetching YouTube subtitles (with fallback to downloading and transcribing locally). Now I can request video summaries from anywhere via Telegram.

![Video summary example](../assets/demo-video-summary.gif)

## Example CLAUDE.md

CLAUDE.md in your personal assistant folder is the centerpiece of the setup.

Here's a template based on my own setup:

```
# CLAUDE.md

This file provides guidance to Claude Code so it can act as [Your Name]'s personal assistant.

## Quick Reference

**Key paths:**
- Notes: `~/Documents/Notes/`
- Personal docs: `~/Documents/Personal/`
- Downloads: `~/Downloads/`
- iCloud: `~/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/`

**This folder:**
- `scripts/` - Utility scripts Claude can run
- `claude/commands/` - Custom slash commands
- `claude/skills/` - Auto-triggered skills

## About [Your Name]

[Your Name] is a [age]yo [profession] based in [City]. [Brief context about work, lifestyle, timezone.]

**Current focus:**
- [Main project/job and key goals]
- [Side projects or interests]

**Passions & hobbies:**
- [Hobby 1]
- [Hobby 2]

## How to Assist

- **Always check the date**: For time-sensitive questions, run `date` first
- **Communication style**: [e.g., "Balanced and friendly, not too terse, use emojis sparingly"]
- **Autonomy**: Handle routine tasks independently, ask before significant actions
- **Proactive**: Suggest next steps after completing work
- **Formatting**: Prefer bullet lists over markdown tables

## Task Management

Use the [Things/Todoist/etc.] MCP to read and write tasks.

**When I ask "what's on my plate"**: Check both tasks AND calendar automatically.

**Creating tasks:**
- Check existing projects first to route tasks correctly
- Unless specified, schedule new tasks for Today
- Include relevant context in task description

**Key projects:**
- Work → [Project name]
- Personal → [Project name]
- [Hobby] → [Project name]

## Calendar

Use `scripts/calendar.sh` to check my calendar.

## Notes

`~/Documents/Notes/` contains:

- `pulse.md` - Daily life digest
- `Research/` - Research files and comparisons
- `Health/` - Health tracking, workouts
- `[Hobby]/` - Notes for specific interests

## Research

When I ask to research something:

1. Check existing research in `~/Documents/Notes/Research/`
2. Search thoroughly using web search
3. Save findings to `~/Documents/Notes/Research/YYYY-MM-DD-topic.md`
4. Include sources and a clear recommendation

## Personal Documents

Important documents in `~/Documents/Personal/` - identity docs, medical records, receipts, etc.

## Health (Optional)

Use `scripts/health.sh` for Apple Health data (requires Health Auto Export app).

When I ask for a workout:

1. Check my training plan in `Health/training.md`
2. Look at recent workout logs
3. Suggest appropriate workout and create the log file

## Telegram Bot

Claude Code can run in this folder via a Telegram bot (code located at `~/dev/claude-telegram-bot/`).

**Voice transcription keywords**: To add terms for recognition, edit `TRANSCRIPTION_CONTEXT` in `.env`.

**MCP servers**: Edit `~/dev/claude-telegram-bot/mcp-config.ts` to add new servers.

**Restart:** Use `/restart` in Telegram, or `cbot-restart` alias.
```

## Example: Claude as a Personal Trainer

One of the most magical uses of this setup is having Claude act as a personal trainer that knows your body, your training plan, and your recent activity.

I recorded demos on my Mac, but this is what normally do on the go, from my iPhone:

![Workout example](../assets/demo-workout.gif)

### The Setup

1. **[Health Auto Export](https://www.healthyapps.dev/)** - An iOS app that syncs Apple Health data to iCloud as daily JSON files
2. **A script** that reads those files and returns structured health data
3. **CLAUDE.md instructions** that tell Claude where your training plan lives and how to create workout logs
4. **A Notes folder** (synced via iCloud) where workout logs are saved as markdown

### The Script

I asked Claude to create `health.sh` - a script that parses Health Auto Export's JSON files and returns my current health metrics plus historical trends for comparison.

Here's what it returns:

```json
{
  "current": {
    "sleep": {
      "duration": "8h 6m",
      "deep": "2h 4m",
      "rem": "2h 4m",
      "bedtime": "1:18 AM",
      "wakeTime": "9:27 AM"
    },
    "activity": {
      "steps": 6599,
      "distance": "5.1km",
      "activeCalories": 582,
      "exerciseTime": 20
    },
    "vitals": {
      "restingHR": 48,
      "hrv": 70.6,
      "avgHR": 61
    }
  },
  "trends": {
    "last7days": { "avgSleep": "7h 40m", "avgRestingHR": 56.6, "avgHRV": 68.8 },
    "30daysAgo": { "avgSleep": "7h 21m", "avgRestingHR": 55.1, "avgHRV": 66.4 },
    "3monthsAgo": { "avgSleep": "7h 29m", "avgRestingHR": 51.3, "avgHRV": 77.5 }
  },
  "recovery": {
    "score": 80,
    "status": "optimal"
  }
}
```

Now I can ask things like "how did I sleep?" or "how's my recovery looking?" from anywhere.

### The CLAUDE.md Instructions

```markdown
## Workouts

Use `scripts/health.sh` for Apple Health data.
Use `scripts/workouts.sh` for workout history.

**Workout requests** - when I ask for a workout:

1. Read training plan (`Health/training.md`) - from my PT, always the basis
2. Check recent logs in `Health/Workouts/` to see what I did last
3. Propose a workout that makes sense (if last was upper body → suggest lower or full body)
4. **ALWAYS create the log file immediately** as `Health/Workouts/YYYY-MM-DD-workout.md`
```

### The Workflow

When I message "give me a workout", Claude:

1. Checks my training plan from my PT
2. Looks at what I did in recent workouts
3. Considers my recovery score from `health.sh`
4. Creates a workout log file like this:

```markdown
# Workout - 29 Dec 2025

**Type:** Full Body
**Location:** Gym

## Exercises

3 sets, 10-12 reps, 1 min rest

1. **Leg Extension** - [video](https://youtu.be/...)
2. **Leg Curl** - [video](https://youtu.be/...)
3. **Lat Machine** - [video](https://youtu.be/...)
4. **Shoulder Press** - [video](https://youtu.be/...)
5. **Triceps Pushdown + Bicep Curl**

## Notes

Light workout during vacation, ~45-50 min.
```

Since my Notes folder syncs via iCloud, I open [Ulysses](https://ulysses.app/) on my iPhone at the gym and the workout is right there.

**But here's the really magical part:** I can message Claude mid-workout asking to tweak something - "swap the shoulder press for lateral raises" - and the file updates. I see the change live in Ulysses within seconds.

It's like having a personal trainer in my pocket who knows my training history, my recovery status, and can adjust on the fly.

## Example: Life Pulse Command

[Commands](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/slash-commands) let you define reusable prompts with dynamic context. They are usually placed in `~/.claude/commands/` (global) or `your-project/claude/commands/`.

The personal assistant folder is a great place to put commands, because you can ask Claude to add new commands which will be available everywhere, and can use the MCPs installed in this folder.

And since I've asked Claude itself to install MCPs and create scripts to access my stuff, I just reference these in commands.

Here's how my `life-pulse.md` command looks like (simplified, in reality it's a bit more complex):

```markdown
---
description: Generate executive life digest from tasks, calendar, notes, and health
allowed-tools: Bash(date:*), Bash(~/scripts/*), Read, Write, mcp__things__*, mcp__calendar__*
---

# Generate Life Pulse

Create a snapshot of my current life by pulling data from various sources.

## Context

- Current time: !`date "+%A, %Y-%m-%d %H:%M"`
- Pulse exists: !`[ -f ~/Documents/Notes/pulse.md ] && echo "Yes" || echo "No"`

## Description

This command creates an executive digest by sourcing:

1. **Tasks**: Today's items, upcoming deadlines, active projects
2. **Calendar**: Events for the next 1-2 weeks
3. **Notes**: Recent notes to identify themes and top-of-mind items
4. **Health**: Sleep, activity, and vitals (if available)

## Implementation

1. **Check Existing Context**:

   - Read `~/Documents/Notes/pulse.md` if it exists (for continuity)
   - Note what was previously urgent to identify changes

2. **Gather Data** (run in parallel where possible):

   - Tasks: Use Things MCP to get today, upcoming, projects
   - Calendar: Run `~/scripts/calendar.sh` or use calendar MCP
   - Notes: Read recent files from `~/Documents/Notes/`
   - Health: Run `~/scripts/health.sh` if available

3. **Synthesize into Executive Digest** with these sections:

   - **TL;DR**: 3-5 bullets capturing essential state of life right now
   - **Now**: Imminent tasks and events needing attention
   - **Next**: What to focus on based on priorities
   - **Future**: Longer-term projects and goals

4. **Write to File**:
   - Save to `~/Documents/Notes/pulse.md`
   - Include timestamp at top

## Output Format

Brief confirmation with the most notable items highlighted.

## Formatting Rules

- NO TABLES - use natural prose and bullet points
- Use **bold** for emphasis on key terms
- Keep it scannable but warm, like a personal briefing
- Limit each section to 5-7 items max
```

## Example: Dynamic Calendars

Another powerful pattern is having Claude **manage calendars that sync to your phone**. I use this for both real-world track days and sim racing leagues.

```
YAML config → sync.py → .ics file → GitHub Gist → Google/Apple Calendar
```

[GitHub Gist](https://gist.github.com/) URLs are stable, so calendar apps that subscribe to them auto-refresh when the content changes (with some delay).

### Track Days: Auto-Scraped Calendar

I wanted to know about track days at circuits near me (Estoril, Portimão in Portugal). The problem: event info is scattered across multiple organizer websites, often in PDF flyers or image-based pages.

So I asked Claude to build a scraper. It grew into a 36,000-line Python script (`racing-events.py`) that:

1. **Scrapes multiple sources** - EuropaTrackdays, Driven.pt, Motor Sponsor, CRM Caterham
2. **Uses Playwright** for JavaScript-heavy sites
3. **Uses OCR and Claude Vision** for PDF flyers and image-based calendars
4. **Outputs YAML** with structured event data

YAML is a good format for this since it's easy to read and write, and I can also easily spot mistakes and manually edit it.

```yaml
# calendars/track-days.yaml (auto-generated)
gist:
  id: 12344asdasd257be07871234asddfg123
  filename: track_days.ics
calendar:
  name: "Fab • Track Days"
  timezone: Europe/Lisbon
events:
  - date: "2026-01-11"
    time: "09:00"
    title: "Portimão - Gedlich Racing"
    duration_minutes: 540
    description: "Endless Summer | €3,290 | Open Pit Lane..."
    url: https://en.europatrackdays.com/trackday/29919/...
```

The YAML is then synced to a Gist that my calendar subscribes to.

When I ask "update my track day calendar", Claude runs the scraper, updates the YAML, and syncs to the gist. My calendar refreshes automatically.

### The Sync Script

I asked Claude to create a `sync.py` script that converts YAML to iCalendar format and pushes to GitHub:

```bash
# List available calendars
calendars/sync.py list

# Preview upcoming events
calendars/sync.py preview sim-racing

# Sync to gist (uses `gh` CLI)
calendars/sync.py sync sim-racing
```

I subscribed to these Gist URLs once in Google Calendar and Apple Calendar:

```
https://gist.githubusercontent.com/linuz90/.../raw/sim_racing.ics
https://gist.githubusercontent.com/linuz90/.../raw/track_days.ics
```

Now when I message "add the Belgium race to my sim racing calendar for next Thursday", Claude:

1. Edits `sim-racing.yaml`
2. Runs `sync.py sync sim-racing`
3. The gist updates
4. My phone calendar refreshes within minutes

I can manage my racing calendars from anywhere in the world, via Telegram.
